.TH XSUM 1 sha3sum
.SH NAME
xsum - Compute and check Xsum message digests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsum
[-u | -l | -b | -c]
\# ONLY SHA3: [-a
\# ONLY SHA3: .IR bits ]
[-R
.IR rate ]
[-C
.IR capacity ]
[-N
.IR output-size ]
[-S
.IR state-size ]
[-W
.IR word-size ]
[-Z
.IR squeeze-count ]
[-vxz]
.RI [ file \ ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Print or check Xsum checksums. If no file
or when the file is -, read standard input.
.TP
.B -u
Output checksums in upper-case hexadecimal representation.
.TP
.B -l
Output checksums in lower-case hexadecimal representation. (default)
.TP
.B -b
Output checksums in binary representation. This suppresses
the filenames and checksum delimiters. Only the checksums
are printed.
.TP
.B -c
Read Xsum sums from the file and check them against
the files on your systems. The input files files
should be formated as the output of this program, or
similarly. This is not going to work if any of the
filenames in the input files starts with a regular
blank space or horizontal tab space, or if they
contain a line feed, carriage return or form feed,
unless the
.B -z
option is also used.
\# ONLY SHA3: .TP
\# ONLY SHA3: .BI -a\  bits
\# ONLY SHA3: Select version of the SHA3 algorithm. Valid values
\# ONLY SHA3: are 224 (default), 256, 384, and 512.
.TP
.B -v
Print the hashing parameters.
.TP
.B -x
Convert input files from hexadecimal for to binary form
before calculating the checksums.
.TP
.B -z
Lines end with NUL instead of LF. If used with
.BR -c ,
this applies to read files (not the output), but it will
also apply more strict parsing and allow any whitespace
in file names.
.P
The following options change the hashing parameters:
.TP
.BI -R\  rate
Change the rate.
.TP
.BI -C\  capacity
Change the capacity.
.TP
.BR -N ,\  -O \ \fIoutput-size\fP
Change the output size.
.TP
.BR -S ,\  -B \ \fIstate-size\fP
Change the state size.
.TP
.BI -W\  word-size
Change the word size.
.TP
.BI -Z\  squeeze-count
Change the number of squeezes that is performed.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Successful completion.
.TP
1
Checksums did not match or a file did not exist.
.TP
2
An error occurred.
.SH AUTHORS
Mattias Andrée
.RI < maandree@kth.se >
.SH NOTES
All commands in the sha3sum package allow changing
the hashing parameters. However it is only intended
to be used with
.BR keccaksum (1),
or if you know what you are doing; apart from
.B -N
which is intended to
.I always
be used with
.BR shake128sum (1),
.BR shake256sum (1),
.BR shake512sum (1),
.BR rawshake128sum (1),
.BR rawshake256sum (1),
and
.BR rawshake512sum (1).
